The demand for video isn't just restricted to television or movies; it also extends to brand marketing. Video marketing has become so widespread that it is now considered a must-have skill for all marketers. Video content is uploaded to the Internet in just one month more than networked television produced in three decades. 
Although the worlds of content marketing and search engine optimization (SEO) are complex and ever-changing, one thing remains constant: video continues to be a major source of traffic. 
Video is one of the most accessible forms of content to potential customers. Incorporating video marketing into your online marketing campaign increases the chance of a front-page Google result by 53 times.  When done effectively, video can be a powerful tool for a company to communicate its message to a big audience. It may be used to create content for both B2C and B2B audiences. Nowadays many companies are looking for video production. 

You need to be aware of the different stages that shoppers experience in their retail journey and find ways to win as they go from one step to the next.

1.Need Recognition 

2.Information Search

3.Evaluation of alternatives

4.Purchase Decision

5.Post purchase evaluation

Through video marketing campaigns, we can influence a customer during the first 4 stages! To ensure maximum sales, we must utilize different types of advertisement tools and strategies.


1. What makes videos so special and why do we like to watch them?

Unlike images or copy, video (and audio) set the pace at which a story or message is delivered. People have the option to quit watching anytime. Videos provoke curiosity by providing a pattern interrupt, a sequence or a narrative in which our expectations are defied.

We engage with content to change our emotional state. The appeal of stories among companies, enterprises, and individuals has a good reason. Human communication is enhanced by the use of stories. Therefore companies build a storybrand. Because video includes so many of the real-life signs and intimations, we rely on to communicate with and understand one another (from facial expressions and gestures to linguistic content and tone of voice) it is one of the most effective content types for transmitting emotional contagion.

Even a short video clip can be enough to deliver an emotional payoff. For example: People say that they feel more energetic and positive (and less anxious, annoyed, or sad) after spending a few minutes watching cat videos. While we tend to enjoy and share content that has a positive emotional carriage, videos that move us towards sadness and anger can also be persuasive and powerful


2. How does video influence purchasing behaviour?

	After watching explainer videos, 73% of buyers say they are more likely to buy it. Consumer confidence is boosted by videos. In fact, 57% of customers report that watching videos makes them feel more confidence about the products they buy and makes them less likely to return them. According to a Google poll, 68% of YouTube users used the site to help them make a purchase decision. Video will increasingly inform consumer decisions and connect businesses with people on the internet. Making a video to demonstrate the debut of a new service or product may be more valuable to users than simply providing text material. 


3. Videos play a large role in customer experience

	Customers now have more information, more options, and higher expectations than they have in the past. The total customer experience is a critical distinction for them; positive experiences lead to loyal consumers. For a variety of reasons, video content is transforming the customer experience. Because video marketing can be used at practically every point of the consumer journey, it is extremely engaging.

Video gets results because it satisfies people's visual content cravings with colour, motion, and sound. This is what makes it so memorable to viewers, and it's why it's such a good platform for those who want potential consumers to connect with their messages. Studies show that 92% of shoppers say visuals are the most influential factor affecting purchase decisions and that almost 50% of internet users look for videos related to a product or service before visiting a store


Some helpful tips for creating the best product videos:

Be Original: Show your product in use in a real setting being used by a real person.

Avoid complexity: Use real-world examples that matter to the audience. Keep it simple.

Be professional:  The right lighting, sound, video equipment and editing facilities make a huge difference. 

Include the “why”: A few individuals are getting to be inquisitive around a few of the information you're appearing to them. It is important to clarify why you're doing precisely what you're doing, instead of going through the movements. Individuals keep data way better when they feel enabled with the information of what the benefits are amid the directions handled, as well as the conclusion results.

Use analytics tool: The analytics tools built into video hosting platforms are making it easier than ever before to assess when people are bouncing away. This means that you can track exactly how far individuals get through a piece of content before they stop consuming it, which may help infer why the video isn’t engaging its viewers as expected. This can then inform the process by which you optimise your media, making video one of the most trackable forms of web content, as well as one of the most emotive.


Courtesy:

Pansworld, the preferred filmmaker to leading corporates in India, makers of films with soul.

