Video is an effective business tool to boost your business and increase your sales. One reason why video is so popular now a days is that, it can save your company time and money. 
In the past few years marketers have tapped into the benefits video brings to the business. But there are additional ways of integrating video that will benefit your business, 
other than your company’s marketing strategies – ways you may not have considered. 
Training videos can be used to preserve company resources while educating employees and consumers. Video content has more significance while delivering knowledge than reading a book or a pamphlet,
a single 5 min video can deliver far more content visually than a one-hour reading.
Video allows the business to deliver details regarding the organization, corporate culture, and the work process quickly and efficiently. And the viewer will actually engage well with it and remember the content better.

Employees are 75% more likely to watch a video than they are to read written text manuals. 
A single employee training video can be used to deliver the content that you would otherwise deliver via multiple emails, web documents or by hiring consultants and trainers. 
And, since the content is consumed more rapidly, you can shift the employee into his or her role more quickly so that you save money on training. 
They start working sooner benefiting the company rather than simply spending days or even weeks “in paid training.”
Employees that receive video training can watch from their own home, office, or designated area without wasting time going to or from a particular venue to receive training.
In some cases, this means that training can be completed in a fraction of the time. Once training is complete, employees are able to start working productively.
In fact, employees that receive video training are more productive because they are confident and prepared for their role.

Benefits of using a training video

1. Customize the video the way you want. 
The flexibility of video makes them very useful when you want to add more concepts. Also, there are plenty of styles you can use to deliver information when it comes to video.
For instance, you can use animation videos, live-demonstration and fictional dramatization. All this is meant to convey information in a way that employees find it engaging and interesting.
For employee training and development, video can be used for several purposes including:
Launching new products or services
Explaining a new software
Hiring new employees
Boosting customer support skills

2. Videos offer better engagement.
If you want your employees to enjoy the training, you must make it engaging and interesting, and that’s exactly what videos do.
Videos attract attention and retain it more than documents and lectures.

3. Video can be used anytime anywhere.
Trainers can record videos during a training session and then make the video available to employees whenever they have the time to watch the training sessions. 
In fact, trainers can upload the videos to their company’s websites so that employees can access them anytime, anywhere.

4. Better way to explain your business
The website will look more professional and easy to understand the products and services if each and every page on the website will consist with an “explainer video”. 
Equally, if you are training your teams about how to use a system you use in your company or you are teaching them about your products or services, video can be one of the effective ways to do it.

How to make an effective training video?
Pansworld is the most preferred filmmaker to many leading companies. 
Pansworld has an experience of more than 500 Films by working continuously with corporate like Indian Oil, Welspun, Bajaj Electricals, Toyo Engineering and several others.
Pansworld has also other projects on topic such as which demonstrates the safety and precautionary measures an employee should consider while working on the field.
After knowing the benefits of video in employee training and development, make a start and think about these three things:

Identify your needs of training.
Understand how to make a good training video.
Hire a specialist agency with multiple skills from script writing to filming, animation and editing.
And now you are ready to go!



